Introduction

OpenShift Container Platform brings together Docker and Kubernetes, and provides an API to manage these services. OpenShift Container Platform allows you to create and manage containers.

Add Support for Deployments to oc status

The oc status command provides an overview of the current project. This provides similar output for upstream deployments as can be seen for downstream DeploymentConfigs, with a nested deployment set:

$ oc status
In project My Project (myproject) on server https://127.0.0.1:8443

svc/ruby-deploy - 172.30.174.234:8080
  deployment/ruby-deploy deploys istag/ruby-deploy:latest <-
    bc/ruby-deploy source builds https://github.com/openshift/ruby-ex.git on istag/ruby-22-centos7:latest
      build #1 failed 5 hours ago - bbb6701: Merge pull request #18 from durandom/master (Joe User <joeuser@users.noreply.github.com>)
    deployment #2 running for 4 hours - 0/1 pods (warning: 53 restarts)
    deployment #1 deployed 5 hours ago

Compare this to the output from OpenShift Container Platform 3.7:

$ oc status
In project dc-test on server https://127.0.0.1:8443

svc/ruby-deploy - 172.30.231.16:8080
  pod/ruby-deploy-5c7cc559cc-pvq9l runs test



Feature Gates

Platform administrators now have the ability to turn off specific features to the entire platform. This assists in the control of access to alpha, beta, or Technology Preview features in production clusters.

Feature gates use a key=value pair in the master and kubelet configuration files that describe the feature you want to block.
Control Plane: master-config.yaml

kubernetesMasterConfig:
  apiServerArguments:
    feature-gates:
    - CPUManager=true

kubelet: node-config.yaml

kubeletArguments:
  feature-gates:
  - DevicePlugin=true



Installation
Improved Playbook Performance

OpenShift Container Platform 3.9 introduces significant refactoring and restructuring of the playbooks to improve performance. This includes:

    Restructured playbooks to push all fact-gathering and common dependencies up into the initialization plays so they are only called once rather than each time a role needs access to their computed values.

    Refactored playbooks to limit the hosts they touch to only those that are truly relevant to the playbook.



Jenkins Memory Usage Improvements

Previously, Jenkins worker pods would often consume too much or too little memory. Now, a startup script intelligently looks at pod limits and environment variables are appropriately set to ensure limits are respected for spawned JVMs.






Web Console
Catalog from within Project View

Quickly get to the catalog from within a project by clicking Catalog in the left navigation.


Configurable Inactivity Timeout

You can now configure the web console to log users out after a set timeout. The default is 0 (never). Set the Ansible variable to the number of minutes:

openshift_web_console_inactivity_timeout_minutes=n


Web Console as a Separate Pod

The web console is now separated out of the API server. The web console is packaged as a container image and deployed as a pod. Configure via the ConfigMap. Changes are auto-detected.

Masters are now schedulable and required to be schedulable for the web consoles deployments to work.



Masters Marked as Schedulable Nodes by Default

In previous versions of OpenShift Container Platform, master hosts were marked as unschedulable nodes by default by the installer, meaning that new pods could not be placed on the hosts. Starting with OpenShift Container Platform 3.9, however, masters are marked schedulable automatically during installation and upgrade. This change is mainly so that the web console, which used to run as part of the master itself, can instead be run as a pod deployed to the master.


Default Node Selector Set By Default and Automatic Node Labeling

Starting in OpenShift Container Platform 3.9, masters are now marked as schedulable nodes by default. As a result, the default node selector (defined in the master configuration file’s projectConfig.defaultNodeSelector field to determine which node that projects will use by default when placing pods, and previously left blank by default) is now set by default during cluster installations and upgrades. It is set to node-role.kubernetes.io/compute=true unless overridden using the osm_default_node_selector Ansible variable.

In addition, whether osm_default_node_selector is set or not, the following automatic labeling occurs for hosts defined in your inventory file during installations and upgrades:

    non-master, non-dedicated infrastructure nodes hosts (by default, this means nodes with a region=infra label) are labeled with node-role.kubernetes.io/compute=true, which assigns the compute node role.

    master nodes are labeled with node-role.kubernetes.io/master=true, which assigns the master node role.

This ensures that the default node selector has available nodes to choose from when determining pod placement. See Configuring Node Host Labels for more details.















